## Full Stack Development using Python, Dash, Pandas & MongoDB!
# Screencast: https://youtu.be/txswx04WDvY

# How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
When there is a complex interaction of technologies in a development it helps to be as consistent as possible.  I emphasized this during the creation of my CRUD Python module.  Since this module was responsible for interacting with MongoDB, I aimed to create functions that operated identically to their MongoDB counterparts.  Queries could be used to read an entire collection or find a specific document(s) with or without projection.  Creating, reading, updating, and deleting data with my Python module returns meaningful errors in cases of odd data values, much like the way MongoDB displays its errors gracefully.  Matching syntax as closely as possible facilitated future integrations with the user interface as well, which was implemented using Python and the Dash framework.  This made jumping back and forth between the technologies much more intuitive and amounted to less time being spent scanning documentation.  MongoDB is a very intuitive NoSQL database, and I will certainly be using it again soon.  With a few simple edits, my CRUD module can be reused for any MongoDB database.   
# How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
The first step in approaching a problem as a computer scientist is understanding the requirements needed to resolve the problem.  The customer Grazioso Salvare was very clear in stating their requirements.  The system was to facilitate the process of finding suitable search and rescue dogs based on specific criteria using data that the customer had acquired.  MongoDB was used for data access based on its speed and flexibility.  I applied indexing to relevant data fields for even greater performance.  To manage the issue securely, administrator and user accounts needed to be created.  The customer specified how they would prefer the user interface to look and perform and these requirements directed my approach to designing and integrating the front-end.  Since I was tasked with leading a full stack development, I needed to work in small iterations and focus on individual components before providing a polished product to the customer.  The database was setup and configured using MongoDB, along with CRUD functionality using Python, and finally I was able to bring the client’s business vision to life using Python and the Dash framework.  This was an entirely new approach to writing applications compared to courses I have taken in the past.  Utilizing open-source technologies made the task a breeze!  I look forward to learning additional technologies and expanding my skillset to facilitate the creation of many future projects.  
# What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Computers allow humans to focus on solving larger scale issues by handling redundant tasks at operating speeds beyond human capacity.  Take for instance, the data present in the Austin Animal Center Outcomes database.  For an employee to analyze the data manually for probable search and rescue training dog candidates, the process could take hours, days, maybe even longer.  Computer scientists use modern technology to simplify these tasks.  We can develop programs that search for specific data with precision, and we can generate data visualizations in ways that would leave professional data analysts humbled.  The users at Grazioso Salvare can focus solely on choosing dog candidates and getting them through the proper search and rescue training, as opposed to staring at a set of documents for hours on end.  Greater progress can be achieved by the company.  As a computer scientist, I look forward to helping others achieve greater accomplishments quickly, precisely, and less strenuously.  
